Method Overriding:
If subclass (child class) has the same method as declared in the parent class, it is known as method overriding in Java.
Rules for Java Method Overriding
The method must have the same name as in the parent class
The method must have the same parameter as in the parent class.

Dynamic Method Dispatch:

Dynamic method dispatch is the mechanism by which a call to an overridden method is resolved at run time, rather than
compile time. Dynamic method dispatch is important because this is how Java implements run-time polymorphism.
Let’s begin by restating an important principle: a superclass reference variable can refer to a subclass object.
When an overridden method is called through a superclass reference, Java determines which version of that method to
execute based upon the type of the object being referred to at the time the call occurs. Thus, this determination is
made at run time.
In other words, it is the type of the object being referred to (not the type of the reference variable)
that determines which version of an overridden method will be executed.


class Shape{  
void draw(){System.out.println("drawing...");}  
}  
class Rectangle extends Shape{  
void draw(){System.out.println("drawing rectangle...");}  
}  
class Circle extends Shape{  
void draw(){System.out.println("drawing circle...");}  
}  
class Triangle extends Shape{  
void draw(){System.out.println("drawing triangle...");}  
}  
class TestPolymorphism2{  
public static void main(String args[]){  
Shape s;  
s=new Rectangle();  
s.draw();  
s=new Circle();  
s.draw();  
s=new Triangle();  
s.draw();  
}  
}  



If B extends A then you can override a method in A through B with changing the return type of method to B.


Why can we not override static method?
It is because the static method is bound with class whereas instance method is bound with an object. Static belongs to the class area, and an instance belongs to the heap area.

Can we override java main method?
No, because the main is a static method.

No.	Method Overloading	                                                    Method Overriding
1)	Method overloading is used to increase the readability of the program.	Method overriding is used to provide the specific implementation of the method that is already provided by its super class.
2)	Method overloading is performed within class.	Method overriding occurs in two classes that have IS-A (inheritance) relationship.
3)	In case of method overloading, parameter must be different.	In case of method overriding, parameter must be same.
4)	Method overloading is the example of compile time polymorphism.	Method overriding is the example of run time polymorphism.
5)	In java, method overloading can't be performed by changing return type of the method only. Return type can be same or different in method overloading. But you must have to change the parameter.	Return type must be same or covariant in method overriding.

There are four types of Java access modifiers:

Private: The access level of a private modifier is only within the class. It cannot be accessed from outside the class.
Default: The access level of a default modifier is only within the package. It cannot be accessed from outside the package. If you do not specify any access level, it will be the default.
Protected: The access level of a protected modifier is within the package and outside the package through child class. If you do not make the child class, it cannot be accessed from outside the package.
Public: The access level of a public modifier is everywhere. It can be accessed from within the class, outside the class, within the package and outside the package.


Java Access Modifiers with Method Overriding
If you are overriding any method, overridden method (i.e. declared in subclass) must not be more restrictive.


If the superclass method does not declare an exception
If the superclass method does not declare an exception, subclass overridden method cannot declare the checked exception but it can declare unchecked exception(runtime exception).
If the superclass method declares an exception
If the superclass method declares an exception, subclass overridden method can declare same, subclass exception or no exception but cannot declare parent exception.


Checked Excpetion:
In general, checked exceptions represent errors outside the control of the program. For example, the constructor of FileInputStream throws FileNotFoundException if the input file does not exist.

Java verifies checked exceptions at compile-time.

Unchecked Exceptions
If a program throws an unchecked exception, it reflects some error inside the program logic.

For example, if we divide a number by 0, Java will throw ArithmeticException:


