String basically an object that represents sequence of char values.

char[] ch={'j','a','v','a','t','p','o','i','n','t'};  
String s=new String(ch);  
is same as:

String s="javatpoint";  


Java String class provides a lot of methods to perform operations on strings such as compare(), concat(), equals(), split(), length(), replace(), compareTo(), intern(), substring() etc.

The java.lang.String class implements Serializable, Comparable and CharSequence interfaces.

The Java String is immutable which means it cannot be changed.
Whenever we change any string, a new instance is created. For mutable strings, you can use StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes.

How to create a string object?
There are two ways to create String object:

By string literal
By new keyword

string literal:

Each time you create a string literal, the JVM checks the "string constant pool" first. If the string already exists in the pool, a reference to the pooled instance is returned. If the string doesn't exist in the pool, a new string instance is created and placed in the pool. For example:

String s1="Welcome";  
String s2="Welcome";//It doesn't create a new instance  

By new keyword
String s=new String("Welcome");//creates two objects and one reference variable  
In such case, JVM will create a new string object in normal (non-pool) heap memory, and the literal "Welcome" will be placed in the string constant pool. The variable s will refer to the object in a heap (non-pool).

Immutable String in Java:

The immutability of String helps to minimize the usage in the heap memory. 
When we try to declare a new String object, the JVM checks whether the value already exists in the String pool or not. 
If it exists, the same value is assigned to the new object. This feature allows Java to use the heap space efficiently.

 ClassLoader:

A ClassLoader in Java uses a String object as an argument.
Consider, if the String object is modifiable, the value might be changed and the class that is supposed to be loaded might be different.

